# Online-voting
online voting system using java servlet
# Objective
The objective of the online voting system is to provide better information for the users of this system, easily they can vote from anywhere without facing any difficulty. Vote Counting can be made very quickly and results will be displayed in few minutes.
# Abstract
The project “Online Voting System” aims at making the voting process easy in any type of elections. Presently voting is performed using electronic voting machine and the counting is done manually, hence it consumes a lot of time. There can be possibility of invalid votes. All these make election a tedious task. In our proposed system voting and counting is done with the help of computer in Online. It saves time, avoid error in counting and there will be no invalid votes. It makes the election process easy. It also avoids the process of physical touching or visiting any places. The system deals with the online voting and its details. Allows the user to vote for the candidate online. Can get the details of the candidate and voter as well. Without the wastage of time the citizen can vote the respective candidate.  In present existing system counting the number of votes, it takes the lot of time to for the existing process, to overcome the drawbacks in the existing system this particular system was proposed to mark our work much easier and to reduce wastage of time. And more over we doesn’t gets the accurate results in the present existing system. So there is a need for Online Voting Systems.
# Approach
The Online Voting System is a software application which avoids more manual hours that need to spend in record keeping and calculating votes. Through this the users can register online and cast their vote to the candidates. Their information is stored in the database the admin can easily access the details of the voters and the candidates. The voters are allowed to vote online they can even vote by sitting at home. Every User allowed to vote only once so there is no chance of duplicated votes. This application keeps the data in a centralized way which is available to all the users simultaneously. It is very easy to manage historical data in database. They can easily use the tool that decreases manual hours spending for normal things and hence increases the performance.
